Hepatic Cell Carcinoma (HCC) is a primary liver cancer with high mortality. It is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide. Hepatic Adenoma (HCA) is a benign tumor of liver cells. Clinical diagnosis requires observation and discrimination through ultrasound images.
Ultrasound imaging, as a simple, fast, non-invasive, and inexpensive imaging method, is widely used in clinical practice. Abdominal ultrasound has great advantages in the diagnosis of liver occupying lesions and is one of the most commonly used clinical examination methods. However, ultrasound also has its shortcomings. Firstly, the imaging resolution is low, which affects the doctor's judgment; secondly, it is limited by the operating doctor's technique, and the diagnosis effect of different doctors has large deviations. Therefore, how to accurately and quickly obtain quantitative diagnosis results is an urgent clinical problem.
With the development of science and technology, in the field of medical image processing, photoomics as a powerful modeling method is widely used in various problems. Imageomics based on medical ultrasound technology provides great convenience for disease diagnosis and treatment plan design. Imaging omics, through in-depth mining of existing data, extracts various characteristics of tumors, can make very accurate judgments and analyses with the assistance of physicians, and has become a popular medical diagnosis method now.
Based on this, this paper proposes a computer-aided diagnosis system for automated HCC and HCA. Aiming at the problem of low resolution of ultrasound images and difficulty in tumor positioning, a UNet-based automatic tumor segmentation model is proposed; for the lack of clinical quantitative diagnosis results for tumors, Proposed an automatic diagnosis model of HCC and HCA based on imaging omics. The model can finally output the quantitative diagnosis results of the tumor and assist the clinic to make the final diagnosis results.
According to the modeling process of the computer-aided diagnosis system, this paper carries out the following three aspects of work: automatic tumor region segmentation, tumor feature extraction, classification and diagnosis model modeling and verification.
In the tumor segmentation module, the UNet automatic segmentation model based on Pytorch got a result of dice of 0.84; in the tumor feature extraction part, the traditional imageomics model based on Matlab extracted the calculated features including histogram features, texture features, wavelets features, describing tumor morphology from these aspects; in the classification and diagnosis model modeling and verification part, three classification algorithms Adaboost/SVM/SRC are integrated, and two verification methods are integrated at the same time. Through a method called LOOCV/TENTH, an accuracy of 0.75 and a recognition rate of 81% are obtained. Finally I successfully completed three parts: manual segmentation diagnosis model, automatic segmentation and automatic segmentation diagnosis model.
